REMAINING OF THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION,
THE MEETING IS BEING HELD IN
PERSON AND ELECTRONICALLY VIA
ZUM MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO
WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON
HEARINGS OR OTHER MATTERS MAY
DO SO VIA TELEPHONE ONLY TO
SPEAK DURING ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT
SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO
NINE NINE OR TWO ONE THREE
THREE THREE EIGHT EIGHT FOUR
SEVEN SEVEN AND INTERMEDIATED
NINE SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX
NINE NINE SEVEN SIX.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA AND THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CITIZEN CHANNEL 16,
AT&T CHANNEL NINETY NINE AND
ONLINE AT W-W THAT DAY TO GOV.
DOUG FORWARD SLASH WATCH.
MR. KOWALSKI WILL YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
UM EPPERSON HERE UH FORTNER
HERE BOSS HERE UH EQUIANO HERE
ROCHLIN HERE WHITE HERE AND
WILLIS HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
ITEMS APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES
OF TONIGHT'S AGENDA?
ANYTHING CAME THROUGH PIRANESI
NO OBJECTION.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED AS
PRESENTED ONTO ITEM D PUBLIC
COMMENT THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
AGAIN, TO COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS PLEASE
CALL 888 SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT ZERO
ZERO NINE NINE AND
INTERMEDIATED NINE SIX FIVE
THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE SEVEN
SIX TWO AND AGAIN THIS
INFORMATION IS ALSO DISPLAYED
ON THE MEDIA AGENDA AND CITY
OF CITY VIDEO FEED CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND ONE BY ONE
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER IN ORDER
TO ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR
HAND TO INDICATE YOUR DESIRE TO
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE.
MR. KOWALSKI, DO WE HAVE ANY
CALLERS ON THE PHONE THAT WOULD
LIKE TO MAKE ANY PUBLIC?
>> I DO NOT THINK I'M VERY KNOW
ANY MEMBERS OF THE AUDIENCE
HAVE ANY PUBLIC COMMENT.
OK, CLOSE THIS THE PUBLIC
COMMENT PORTION FOR THIS AND
MOVE ON TO ITEM E UNFINISHED
BUSINESS WHICH WE HAVE NOT AND
ONTO ITEM F HEARINGS FIRST
HEARING IS THREE TWENTY S
SEVENTH STREET MR. POLSKI GOOD
EVENING EVERYBODY.
GO THROUGH TWENTY SEVENTH
STREET OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT PICTURES OF THE
SUBJECT SIGHT THE FRONT THE
REAR WHICH IS WHERE THE WORK
WILL BE DONE AGAIN FROM THE
SIDE STREET VIEW DRIVEWAY SHOT
HERE YOU CAN SEE THE EXISTING
EXCUSE ME THE EXISTING
SURVEYING SITE PLAN AND THE
PROPOSED ADDITIONS WHICH IS OFF
OF THE REAR AND KEEPS A COUPLE
OF ELEMENTS YOU CAN SEE OF THE
EXISTING REMAINING OUTSIDE THE
CENTRAL BOX OF THE HOUSE IS
THIS EXISTING ONE AND A HALF
STOREY THAT WILL REMAIN AND
THIS IS THE PROPOSED TWO STOREY
ADDITIONS OFF TO THE TO THE
REAR ELEVATION VIEWS.
YOU CAN SEE AGAIN PART OF THAT
LOWER SECTION HERE WHICH WOULD
BE REMAINING WITH SOME
ALTERATIONS TO IT.
I BELIEVE THE DOOR WAS BEING
SHIFTED OVER FRONT VIEW SO NOT
REALLY SLIGHTLY VISIBLE.
SORRY.
GO BACK THERE WE GO OFF TO THE
LEFT HERE YOU CAN SEE AGAIN THE
VIEW AND THAT SIDE PERHAPS HERE
OK, YOU KNOW PARLAMENT SHOGAN
ALL MIXED UP HERE IS NOW OK
WE'RE GOING TO THE DIFFERENT I
APOLOGIZE.
OK, HERE WE GO AGAIN A LITTLE
BIT CLOSER VIEW AND YOU CAN SEE
SOME OF THE INTERIOR WHERE THAT
STORE OR THE SORRY THE DOOR WAS
GOING TO BE SHIFTED OVER THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
THAT APPLY NO TO NO NO FIVE NO.
NINE AND NO TEN REGARDING THE
BUILDING SITE AS WELL.
WHAT'S NOT RECOMMENDED YOU CAN
SEE THERE, UH, WHAT'S
RECOMMENDED AS FAR AS ADDITIONS
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED AS FAR AS
ADDITIONS IN OUR OUR ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT GUIDELINES
EDITIONS WHAT'S APPROPRIATE
LOCATING A REQUIRED ADDITION ON
THE EAST CHARACTER DEFINING
ELEVATION AND KEEPING IT
SELBORNE IN VOLUME TO THE
HISTORIC BUILDING AND THAT THAT
CONCLUDES PRESENTATION STATION
FOR THAT ITEM.
THANK YOU MR. KOWALSKI.
UM, COMMISSIONER WILSON ROSTER
ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
PLEASE GIVE YOUR REPORT AND
RECOMMENDATION.
>> I GUESS I CAN START UM SO I
WASN'T PRESENT AT THE BUT AT
THE LAST MEETING SO I GUESS
THERE WAS SOME DISCUSSION
PREVIOUSLY ABOUT PRIOR DESIGN
THAT DIDN'T FLY.
UM BUT WE WON'T TALK ABOUT THE
PAST SO SO GENERALLY SPEAKING
IN TERMS OF THE SCALE OF THE
ADDITION, THE SCALE OF THE
ADDITIONS SEEMED REASONABLE,
SOMETHING THAT'S GOING TO BE
MINIMALLY VISIBLE FROM RIGHT
AWAY AND THE THE REAR WING THAT
LIKE THE GABLED WING THAT IS
HISTORIC AGE AND CONTRIBUTING
TO THE BUILDING.
UM SO BASED ON WHAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT HERE, UM HALF OF THE
GATE ESSENTIALLY NOT HALF BUT A
LITTLE BIT LESS THAN HALF WILL
KIND OF BE ENGULFED BY THE NEW
ADDITIONS BUT THERE'S ENOUGH
THAT WILL BE REMAINING SO THAT
YOU CAN GET A SENSE OF OK HERE
IS YOU CAN GET A SENSE OF THAT
THAT WING STILL KIND
OF EXISTING, RIGHT?
YEAH.
I MEAN I GENERALLY SPEAKING I
MEAN IF THERE WASN'T THIS
QUESTION AROUND THIS CHARACTER
DEFINING WING BEING IMPACT BY
THIS ADDITION GENERALLY
SPEAKING I WOULD SAY YEAH, IT'S
THE RIGHT SCALE.
IT'S THE RIGHT LOCATION.
THE MATERIALITY MAKES SENSE.
SO IT'S JUST THAT QUESTION
AROUND HOW MUCH OF OF THIS
HISTORIC REAR WING ARE IS IS
THE COMMISSION WILLING TO KIND
OF LET GO?
SO I THINK THAT'S OBVIOUSLY
SOMETHING THAT WE ALSO DISCUSS
.
I AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER ROSS
BUT I THINK THIS DESIGN
DEFINITELY IS MORE COMPATIBLE
THAN THE EARLIER ONE.
SO BUT IT'S IT LOOKED LIKE THE
CHANGES THAT THEY WANT TO MAKE
WOULD REALLY BE BENEFICIAL TO
THE FAMILY AND BEING ABLE TO
USE THE SPACE OF THEIR HOUSE.
THANK YOU.
UH, WITH THE APPLICANT PLEASE
STEP FORWARD.
I BELIEVE YOU'RE IN THE ROOM
AND YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE
MINUTES.
UM, TO ADD ANYTHING YOU'D LIKE
TO THE STAFF REPORT AND PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORDS.
UM, NO SINEM UH WE USUALLY HAVE
SOMETHING TO ONE.
MY NAME IS IT'S BONNIE
GRINSPOON OF LEWIS GREENSPRING
ARCHITECTS I'M THE ARCHITECT
AND THE HOMEOWNER MR. SEAN
HOSKINS IS SITTING SORT ORANGE
SHORT SLEEVED SHIRT BEHIND ME
UM YES.
WE WE'RE PROPOSING A TWO STORY
ADDITION TO THIS HOUSE.
THE CURRENT HOUSE IS RATHER
SMALL.
THE UPPER FLOOR HAS TWO
BEDROOMS AND A SHARED BATHROOM
ALL OCCUPIED BY A FAMILY
OF FOUR CURRENTLY AND THEY'VE
LIVED IN THIS HOUSE FOR A
WHILE.
THEY LOVE THIS HOUSE.
THEY LOVE THE NEIGHBORHOOD
WOULD LIKE TO STAY AND AS YOU
HAVE PROBABLY APPROVED HOUSES
ALONG THIS STREET HAVE ALL HAD
ADDITIONS AND SO WE WERE TRYING
TO RESOLVE A COMPATIBLE
ADDITION ONTO THIS HOUSE AS
WELL BASED ON THE LAST MEETING
THE LAST PROPOSAL THE
COMMISSIONERS HAD STATED YOU
KNOW, WE WE TOOK YOUR POINTS
INTO CONSIDERATION WHEN WE MADE
THIS PROPOSAL AND PULLED IT
BACK FROM THE GARAGE.
SO IT WAS AS CLOSE TO THE
GARAGE AS A PREVIOUS.
SO IT IS NOT AS CLOSE TO THE
GARAGE AS PREVIOUSLY WAS AS
WELL AS LEAVING AS MUCH AS WE
COULD OF THE ROOF OF THAT ONE
STOREY ONE AND A HALF STOREY
ADDITION ON THE BACK I CAN SAY
ADDITIONS ON THE BACK.
IT'S A ONE AND A HALF STOREY
PIECE THAT HAS BEEN ALTERED
CONSIDERABLY BECAUSE IT HAS AN
ODD TRIANGULAR WINDOW UP IN THE
GABLE OF IT WHICH WE DIDN'T
THINK IN ANY WAY COULD BE
ORIGINAL AND THEN THE
HORIZONTAL WINDOWS ON THE
GROUND FLOOR BELOW THAT IT'S
JUST AN ORIENTATION OF WINDOW
IN DISCUSSIONS WITH JILL THAT
WE THOUGHT, YOU KNOW, IN NO WAY
WOULD WOULD HAVE BEEN WOULD
HAVE BEEN HISTORICALLY LOCATED
OR ORIENTED THAT WAY.
SO WE'VE ADDED A MASTER BEDROOM
ONTO THIS UPPER FLOOR AS WELL
AS A SMALL BATHROOM AND A SMALL
CLOSET AND THE CURRENT MASTER
BEDROOM NOW HAS A ROOM.
>> I HAVE A HALLWAY SO IT
IS
MADE SMALLER IN ORDER TO PUT A
HALLWAY IN TO GET TO THIS NEW
MASTER BEDROOM AND ALSO
REQUIRED US TO REMOVE THE
CHIMNEY IN ORDER TO CREATE A
CLOSET FOR THIS NEW BEDROOM
THAT IS NOW MADE SMALLER
BECAUSE OF THE HALLWAY THE YEAH
,I'VE ALREADY TALKED ABOUT
THAT.
I WAS SORRY WE ATTEMPTED TO
KEEP AS MUCH OF THAT ONE AND A
HALF STOREY PIECE AS WE COULD
ON THE BACK OF THE HOUSE SUCH
THAT WHERE THE ADDITIONS
ACTUALLY CONNECTS TO THE
EXISTING TWO STOREY PIECE WE
TRIED TO MAKE THAT AS NARROW AS
POSSIBLE BY JUST HAVING THE
HALLWAY AND A VERY SMALL
BATHROOM.
IT'S A VERY MODEST BATHROOM
EVEN THOUGH IT'S DEDICATED
MASTER BATHROOM, VERY SMALL,
MODEST BATHROOM BY TODAY'S
STANDARDS WE HAVE REMOVED THE
TRIANGULAR WINDOW IN THE WEST
ELEVATION ON BACK ELEVATION AS
WELL AS THOSE HORIZONTAL
WINDOWS COMING UP.
YES.
SO THE BOTTOM THE BOTTOM
DRAWING SHOWS THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THEN THE TOP
RATE DRAWING SHOWS THE NEW BACK
ELEVATION AND YOU CAN SEE A
LITTLE BIT OF THE RIDGE OF THAT
ONE AND A HALF STOREY VOLUME
THAT WILL STILL BE MAINTAINED
SO YOU CAN STILL RECOGNIZE THAT
THERE IS AND WAS A ONE ONE AND
A HALF STOREY VOLUME AT THAT
POINT.
WE'VE ALSO ATTEMPTED TO
MAINTAIN THE CORNERS OF THE
EXISTING VOLUMES WHERE WE HAVE
THE TWO STORY HOUSE SOUTHWEST
CORNER OF THE TWO STORY HOUSE
STILL EXPRESSED AND THE ROOF
STILL EXPRESSED AND THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF THAT ONE
AND A HALF STOREY VOLUME VERY
CLEARLY EXPRESSED AS WELL.
SO THE EXISTING CORNERS OF THE
THE HOUSE ARE MAINTAINED AND
THE ROOF FORMS ARE MAINTAINED
SUCH THAT OUR NEW ROOF IS
LOWER.
THE PEAK OF THAT ROOF THE HIGH
THE RIDGE POINT OF THAT ROOF IS
I THINK OVER FOUR FEET LOWER
THAN THE EXISTING RIDGE AND
ALSO THE CONNECTION THE THE
CONNECTION OF THAT SMALLER
VOLUME TO THE BIG TWO STORY
VOLUME IS IS ALSO CONSIDERABLY
LOWER IN ORDER TO MAINTAIN THE
EXPRESSION OF THE VERY ORIGINAL
TWO STORY VOLUME.
THANK YOU.
I'D LIKE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS IF
ANYONE HAS AS WELL.
COMMISSIONER, ANY QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT?
BUT COMMISSIONER, A QUESTION
FOR YOU TWO QUESTIONS FIRST ONE
IS I'M JUST SORT OF CURIOUS
ABOUT THE THE BEDROOM TO YOU
MENTIONED IT'S GETTING SMALLER
BECAUSE OF THE HALLWAY.
>> IT LEADS INTO A CLOSET JUST
LIKE IS THERE YOU SIGN IT.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU CAN
MULTITASK.
>> I WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO SO I
WILL LISTEN TO YOU TO REPEAT.
>> I WILL I WILL CONTINUE JUST
COULD YOU GIVE US AN IDEA LIKE
IS THERE ANY HEAD ROOM IN THAT
IS THAT CLOSET VERY LOW
CEILINGED OR IS IT LIKE CAN YOU
STAND UP AND WALK AROUND IN
THAT CLOSET?
>> IT YOU CAN STAND UP AT THE
HIGH POINT OF THE RIDGE, RIGHT.
BECAUSE YOU'RE THE FIVE FOOT
FOUR I CAN STAND UP OKAY.
>> IT IS NOT LEGAL A LEGAL ROOM
BECAUSE OF THE BEDROOM SO THAT
CLOSET FOR AS A CHILD'S ROOM.
YES, IT'S FINE.
YEAH RIGHT.
OK BUT IF I WERE BUILDING THIS
YOU KNOW IF WE WERE DESIGNING
THIS BUILDING FROM SCRATCH AS A
NEW BUILDING NO WE WOULD NOT BE
LEGAL.
>> OK, SO I UNDERSTOOD SOUNDS
LIKE A GOOD USE OF SPACE
ANYWAYS AND THEN IN THAT IN
THAT SAME AREA OF THE HOUSE I'M
JUST I GUESS I HAVE A CONCERN
AND IT IS THAT HOW THERE'S
GOING TO BE A SLOW LEADING
BACK.
>> SO THERE'S A RIDGE OF THAT
ONE AND A HALF STOREY.
>> SO JUST EXPLAIN ARILD LEAVES
AND WATER HOW IS THAT GOING TO
WORK WITH I LIKE THAT YOU'RE
KEEPING THE RIDGE BECAUSE THEN
YOU CAN REALLY READ THAT'S
WHERE THE RIDGE IS AND IT'S
COMING BACK SO I LIKE THAT AND
THEN BUT I'M JUST CONCERNED
ABOUT THE HISTORIC PROPERTY IF
IT'S GOING TO BE IN DANGER
BECAUSE OF RAIN AND LEAVES.
>> SO HOW IS THAT BEING
HANDLED?
YOU'LL STILL READ THE RIDGE?
YEAH.
FROM MOST SPOTS ON THE GROUND
WHEN YOU'RE UP IN A DRONE YOU
WILL SEE THAT WHERE THAN WHERE
YOU HAVE THE RIDGE THEN SLOPING
INTO THE NEW WALL.
YEAH, WE WILL SORT OF COVER
MOST THAT ROOF WITH A LARGE
SADDLE WORKING.
>> YOU'LL FILL IT IN IN A
DISCREET WAY, YOU KNOW, VERY
DISCRETE FROM THE GROUND.
>> I'M SEEING THE RIDGE BUT
WHEN I'M UP ON THE ROOF I DON'T
HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT THE CORRECT
CORRECT BECAUSE THAT WAS A
LARGE CONSIDERATION FOR US IS
HOW DO WE DEAL WITH THIS SMALL
BIT OF ROOF THAT THEN SLOPES
NEW EDITION.
ABSOLUTELY.
AND WHERE THAT WALL IS LOCATED
REALLY WAS BASED ON HOW DO WE
DEAL WITH THAT SLOPING ROOF?
IT WAS VERY CRITICAL IN OUR
DISCUSSION WITH JILL WHEN SHE
MET WITH US AT SOME POINT ON
THE SITE AFTER OUR PREVIOUS
DECLINE THE DECLINE OF OUR LAST
PROPOSAL IN TALKING TO HER IT
WAS CRITICAL THAT WE MAINTAIN
THAT RIDGE MEETING OF THE
RIDGE.
>> YES, RIGHT.
AND SOME AMOUNT BEYOND THAT
RIDGE AND THAT MOUNT THAT WAS
TERMINAL WHERE THAT WALL WAS
AND YES, WE WE WILL OBTAIN
DRAINAGE IN IT TO WHICH YOU MAY
ONLY SEE FROM A DRONE OR WHEN
YOU'RE STANDING ON THE REMOTE.
VERY GOOD.
THANK.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU KURT.
NOT OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING.
UM THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT 320 S 7TH
STREET.
>> UM AGAIN JUST PUBLIC COMMENT
MAY BE MADE BY CALLING EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTERING
THE MEETING AND LISTED IN THE
UM AGENDA AND VIDEO FEED.
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS IN THOSE
CALLERS AT THIS TIME?
OK, NO ONE IN THE AUDIENCE UM
UH CAUSED THE PUBLIC PORTION UM
IS THERE COMMISSIONER I WOULD
LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION
.
UH, I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
AS TO EXCUSE ME A ISSUED
CERTIFICATE PROVIDE US FOR THE
APPLICATION AT THREE TWENTY S
SEVENTH STREET, A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT
A TWO STOREY REAR EDITION,
REMOVE A CHIMNEY AND SHIFT A
DOOR ON THE NORTH ELEVATION AS
PROPOSED THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE
AN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO FIVE, NINE AND TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE IN ADDITION AS WELL AS THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR
THE GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITION
SECTION MOVE BACK MR. KIYONO
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHITE
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION TO
START I'LL JUST WHEN I THINK
THAT I RECALL THE THE ADDITIONS
AND THE DISCUSSION FROM THE
LAST ROUND AND I THINK THAT I
AGREE THAT A LOT OF THE
COMMENTS AND THE CONCERNS THAT
WE HAD WERE ADDRESSED I THINK
VERY, VERY NICELY AND REALLY
CONSIDERED UM OUR MAIN CONCERN
AS HAS BEEN STATED WAS THAT
THAT ONE IN STORY EDITION AND
THE PREVIOUS WAS GOING TO BE
SWALLOWED.
IT WAS ALMOST COMPLETELY
RECOGNIZABLE AS AN ADDITION AND
SO I THINK AND PART OF THE
CHALLENGE FROM THAT THE SITE
WERE IS REALLY THAT THAT
LOCATION OF THE GARAGE AND
PROXIMITY TO THE HOUSE UM YOU
KNOW, NOT ONLY DISTANCE FROM
THE HOUSE GOING STRAIGHT BACK
BUT ALSO TO THE THAT'S THE THE
NORTH I BELIEVE ON THAT SIDE.
UM SO THEY WERE I THINK
CONCERNS IN THAT THAT
DEPARTMENT AS WELL.
I THINK THE DESIGN HAS BEEN
HANDLED NICELY TO REALLY
CONSIDER, YOU KNOW, THE SCALE
AND MASSING OF THE HOUSE AND UM
TRYING TO TO MINIMIZE THAT
TOUCH AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE TO
THE ADDITIONS AND WE RECOGNIZE
WITH THE ADDITIONS THERE'S
ALWAYS GOING TO BE SOME
HISTORIC CHARACTER THAT IS
DESTROYED IN THE PROCESS.
SO I THINK THIS IS REALLY
CONSIDERATE OF THE WHAT IS
THERE UH, I THINK IT MEETS THE
GUIDELINES SO I DON'T REALLY
HAVE MUCH MORE TO ADD ANOTHER
COMMISSIONER'S COMMENTS OR IS
THERE A CHANCE THAT WE HAVE TO
LOOK AT THERE IS A CHIMNEY
RIGHT THAT IS BEING REMOVED?
UM, CORRECT.
UH, WHILE WE PULL THOSE PHOTOS
UP, I'LL JUST YEAH, I AGREE.
I THINK THAT THIS IS A VERY
DIFFICULT UH, HOUSE JUST
BECAUSE OF THE ONE YOU KNOW,
THE VERY LOW ROOFED ADDITION
HISTORIC EDITION OR WING
WHATEVER IT WAS IT JUST MAKES
THIS VERY DIFFICULT AND THERE'S
A DRIVEWAY SO THAT ONE
SIDE IS
VERY VISIBLE AND THERE'S A
CONTRIBUTING RAJ IS VERY CLOSE
TO THE HOUSE.
SO ALL THOSE THINGS REALLY
WE'RE CREATING A HIGH DEGREE
OF DIFFICULTY HERE AND YEAH, I
THINK THE APPLICANT AND THE
DESIGN TEAM CAME UP WITH WITH
SOME VERY CLEVER MOVES WHETHER
THEY'RE SAVING THE CORNERS AND
THE RIDGE AND IT'S GOING TO BE
A YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU DO KIND
OF ANALYZE THE ADDITION, IT'S
TELLING KIND OF THE RIGHT STORY
ABOUT THE ADDITION BEING A
SUBSERVE ADD ON TO THE HISTORIC
STRUCTURE AND THERE'S THE
CHIMNEY UM ARE A COUPLE
OF PHOTOS ON THE SCREEN.
THERE'S AN ADDITIONAL ONE IN
THE PACKET FROM LIKE THE
NORTHEAST CORNER ARE YOU CAN
YOU CAN SEE IT.
I WOULD LOOK I GUESS AT THE IF
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE FELT LIKE
THIS WAS REALLY A CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE OF THIS HOUSE
I GIVEN ALL THE CONSTRAINTS
OF THE THE PLAN, I'M INCLINED
THAT IT'S NOT A SIGNIFICANT
OF A FEATURE.
>> YEAH.
SO IT WAS WE DID ACTUALLY ASK
ABOUT THE CHIMNEY AND YOU KNOW
DID THE OBVIOUSLY THE INTERIOR
LAYOUT UM UM THEY HAD TO REMOVE
IT AND YEAH I MEAN IT'S IT'S
KIND OF YOU KNOW OVERALL SAID
THAT IT'S JUST THE SLOW DRIP
DRIP OF THESE ADDITIONS COMING
IN AND THE CHIMNEY GOING AWAY
BUT I WOULDN'T SAY ON THIS
HOUSE IT'S NOT LIKE THIS IS
LIKE A TUTOR REVIVAL HOUSE THAT
YOU KNOW, AN ORNATE CHIMNEY.
YEAH.
OR A CHIMNEY THAT'S REALLY PART
OF THE CHARACTER, YOU KNOW,
STYLED A DEFINING FEATURE.
YEAH.
SO I THINK JUST FOR THIS
PARTICULAR HOUSE NO BUT IT'S I
GUESS IT'S JUST SOMETHING TO
KEEP THAT WE SHOULD KEEP IN
MIND IS LIKE I SAID WE JUST GET
THE SLOW DRIP DRIP OF THESE
CHIMNEYS GOING AWAY AND I'VE
READ ANY OTHER COMMENTS I WAS
READY TO VOTE ALL OF THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES.
YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
ALL RIGHT.
THE MOTION CARRIES THE
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
ANY PERMITS.
UM, REQUIRED FROM THE CITY
BEFORE BEGINNING WORK.
THANK YOU.
RIGHT ONTO ITEM FIVE TO SEVEN
NINETEEN WEST WASHINGTON.
>> OK THANK YOU AGAIN THIS IS
LOCATED IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
I SEE OBVIOUSLY THE PICTURE IS
LOOKING AT THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE THE PROPOSED THAT THAT IS
IN THE REAR.
SO HERE YOU OBVIOUSLY SEE
SECTION OF THE REAR.
THE DECK WOULD BE KIND OF OFF
JUST OFF TO THE RIGHT OF THIS
PICTURE OFF THE REAR OF THE
BUILDING YOU CAN SEE HERE AGAIN
LOOKING AT YES, THIS WOULD BE
LOOKING EAST ACROSS THE REAR
OF THE HOUSE.
THE DECK WOULD BE OFF OF KIND
OF WHERE MY MOUTH IS MOVING ON
THE SCREEN.
>> YES.
OKAY, PERFECT.
THERE YOU GO.
THAT COULD BE IN THIS AREA
RIGHT HERE AND OKAY HERE'S
HERE'S AN EVEN BETTER SHOT
OF IT AGAIN THIS THIS DOOR IS
GOING TO BE MOVED OVER SLIGHTLY
TO ALIGN WITH THIS THE DOOR
THAT I'M SORRY THAT THE DOOR
WINDOW RIGHT BELOW IT.
>> OK, SORRY.
SO THIS WILL BE MOVED OVER THEN
THEY'LL BECOME A DOOR TO EXIT
TO FOR ACCESS TO THE DECK IN
THIS AREA AGAIN.
SO OBVIOUSLY LOOKING FROM THE
OTHER DIRECTION UM YOU CAN SEE
HERE A VIEW FROM THE OF THE
NEIGHBORING BACKYARDS.
YOU CAN SEE IT'S PRETTY WELL
SCREENED DECENT DISTANCE FROM
THAT AS WELL.
>> A SURVEY OF HOW YOU CAN SEE
IT.
SO IT'S OBVIOUSLY 719 OR SO YOU
CAN SEE IT DOES INCLUDE LIKE A
PORTION OF ANOTHER HOUSE BUT
THE HOUSE THAT WE'RE DISCUSSING
RIGHT NOW, 1719, THE LARGER
PARCEL SITE PLAN LOOKING YOU
CAN SEE THE PROPOSED BALCONY
AND SO SOME OF THE SKETCHES
OF THE EXISTING FLOOR PLAN WITH
THE PROPOSED BALCONY SKETCH
OF THE DESIGN.
YEAH, SO AGAIN YOU CAN SEE THE
TO THE LEFT THE EXISTING WHERE
THE CURRENT WINDOW IS RIGHT NOW
AND THEN OBVIOUSLY IT'S JUST
SHIFTED OVER CONVERTED TO A
DOOR TO ACCESS TO A REAR DECK
OR THE PROPOSED DECK AND
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
NO TO NUMBER NINE TO BE NUMBER
TEN AND REGARDING ENTRANCES AND
PORCHES SPECIFICALLY UNDER THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
GUIDELINES WAS RECOMMENDED
AGAIN THIS IS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT GUIDELINES
REGARDING RESIDENTIAL PORCHES
WHEN IT'S APPROPRIATE
INSTALLING A NEW PORCH AND
ENTRANCE ON A SECONDARY
ELEVATIONS MAY BE APPROPRIATE
IF IT DOES NOT DIMINISH THE
BUILDING'S ARCHITECTURAL
CHARACTER AND DESIGN AND
MATERIALS ARE COMPATIBLE WITH
THE BUILDING AND THE SITE.
WELL, AND THAT CONCLUDES THE
PRESENTATION ON THIS ITEM.
GO BACK TO A PICTURE.
THANK YOU, MR. KOWALSKI.
UH, COMMISSIONER SWANSON ROSS,
WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE YOUR
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT AND
RECOMMENDATION?
I THINK THAT THE SIZE OF THE
PROPOSED STACK REALLY IS
APPROPRIATE FOR THE HOUSE AND
BECAUSE IT IS AND VISIBLE FROM
THE STREET UM ALSO MAKE A
BETTER USE OF THE HOME SPACE
FOR THE CURRENT OCCUPY.
SO THAT WAS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD, AGREED AND
AGREED AND IT'S VERY SIZABLE.
SO YOU KNOW THIS KIND OF MINOR
WHAT I WHAT I WOULD DEFINE AS A
MINOR INTERVENTION TO ENABLE
THE APPLICANT TO HAVE THEIR
KIND OF OUTDOOR SPACE
ACCESSIB THE SECOND
STORY IT'S MODEST THE
MATERIALITY IS COMPATIBLE WITH
THE HOUSE IT SEEMS YOU KNOW
ONCE AGAIN A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD PROPOSAL LIKE
AN APPLICANT IS PRESENT CORRECT
.
IF YOU'D LIKE TO STEP UP AND
THE STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES IF
YOU'D LIKE TO ADD ANYTHING TO
THE STAFF REPORT A REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOHN MORTON.
UM YEAH THE ONLY THING I WOULD
ADD IS ONE OF THE THINGS WE
TALKED ABOUT THE OTHER DAY WAS
I'M CONSIDERING WHETHER THE
OVERHANG SHOULD BE ONE FOOT OR
TWO FEET AND I WAS I'VE BEEN
WAITING BACK FROM THE
CONTRACTOR TO GET SOME FEEDBACK
AND I HAVEN'T GOTTEN IT YET.
BUT WHEN WE TALKED ABOUT IT
BEING COMFORTABLE WE GO EITHER
A ONE FOOT OR TWO FOOT
CANTILEVER.
PART OF THE REASON FOR THAT IS
THE PROPORTIONS OF THE RAILINGS
WOULD MATCH FROM THE REAR AND
FROM THE SIDES SO IT MIGHT LOOK
A LITTLE BETTER BUT I NEED TO
CONFIRM THE CONTRACTOR BUT
OTHER THAN THAT IT SEEMS PRETTY
SIMPLE COMPARED TO THE PREVIOUS
UH HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS?
NO, NO, NO, NO, NO.
OK, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
UM WELL NOT OPEN THE PUBLIC
PORTION FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT SEVEN NINETEEN
WEST WASHINGTON PLEASE REMEMBER
TO PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR
PHONE IF YOU'D LIKE TO MAKE A
COMMENT ON THIS HEARING.
WE'VE BEEN CALLERS NO CALLERS
AT THIS TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION.
>> UM, IS THERE, COMMISSIONER,
THAT WE'D LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
FOR PORTER I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION IS SEVEN NINETEEN
WEST WASHINGTON THE
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO CONSTRUCT A 14 FOOT BY EIGHT
FOOT ONE INCH WOOD AND CONVERT
A WINDOW TO A DOOR OFF THE
FIRST FLOOR OF THE REAR
OF ELEVATION AS PROPOSED THE
WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT, TEXTURE
MATERIAL AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE REST OF THE BUILDING AND
THE SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR ENTRANCES
AND PORCHES AND BUILDING SITE
AS WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR IS
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY AS THEY
PERTAIN TO RESIDENTIAL PORCHES
BY COMMISSIONER FORTNER
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHITE
THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION SHOULD GO AHEAD.
AS I SAID, I'D LIKE IF POSSIBLE
TO HAVE A LENIENCY TO GO TO A
NINE FOOT ONE INCH DEPTH FOR
THE TWO FOOT OVERHANG AND I
JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
OK, SO THE ONE OR TWO FOOT
OVERHANG WAS ONLY IN ONE
DIRECTION.
>> YES, YES.
YES.
UM, SO THE MOTION READS EIGHT
FOOT ONE IF THERE'S I GUESS THE
MAYBE IF YOU COULD IT BE UP TO
NINE FOOT NINE FOOT ONE EIGHT
FOOT TO NINE FOOT ONE.
OK, I JUST WANT TO KNOW ARE YOU
COMFORTABLE EIGHT FOOT TO NINE
FOOT ONE.
THANK YOU FOR THAT CATCH.
APPRECIATE IT.
OK, ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION COMMISSIONERS' I THINK
THIS IS STRAIGHTFORWARD AGAIN
AND NO ISSUE WITH THE ONE OR
TWO FOOT OVERHANG THAT'S
MINIMAL READY FOR A VOTE
OF THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
YES.
YES, YES.
ALL OF THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
THE MOTION CARRIES UM PLEASE
NOTE THAT YOU'LL JUST BE
REQUIRED TO OBTAIN ANY PERMITS
FROM THE CITY BEFORE STARTING.
I THINK YOU KNOW, FOR ME TO
THANK YOU.
RIGHT.
UM ITEM F THREE TO FIVE TEEN TO
SEVENTEEN S MAIN HAS BEEN
POSTPONED BUT SINCE IT'S ON THE
AGENDA WE'LL HAVE A PUBLIC
HEARING.
OH UM DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
THE LINE?
THERE ARE NO CALLERS AT THE
SITE AND THERE ARE NO MEMBERS
PRESENT SO I WILL CORRECT.
YEAH.
UM CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION FOR THIS ITEM.
OK, I WAS UH ONTO ITEM FOUR
TWENTY SEVEN EIGHTY ONE PACKARD
ROAD UH THANK YOU.
>> UH SO OBVIOUSLY THIS IS A
COBBLESTONED FARM HISTORIC
DISTRICT LOOKING FROM PACKARD
ROAD THE THE SOLAR PANELS ARE
PROPOSED ON THE REAR THE BARN
STRUCTURE WHICH IS OFF KIND
OF BEHIND TO THE RIGHT HERE.
>> IT'S QUITE A DISTANCE FROM
THE STREET.
THIS IS LOOKING AT FROM THE
REAR BASICALLY FROM THE PUBLIC
ACCESS PARKING LOT TOWARDS THE
PARK.
SO PACKARD ROAD IS TO THE IN
THE BACKGROUND OF THIS PICTURE.
>> THIS IS ALSO THIS IS LOOKING
KIND OF FROM THE PACKARD
ROADSIDE THE FACE THE SIDE
OF THE BARN WITH THE WINDOWS
RIGHT THERE THAT'S GOING TO
FACE WEST AND THEN THE THE
FRONT THE SIDE THAT FACES SOUTH
IS YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE WHITE
DOOR IS.
THE PROPOSED SOLAR PANELS WILL
OBVIOUSLY BE GOING ON THE ROOF
OF THAT STRUCTURE AND THEY'LL
BE ON BOTH SIDES OF THE ROOF.
>> SO THIS IS LOOKING FROM THE
FRONT.
SO OBVIOUSLY HERE YOU CAN SEE
AN AERIAL VIEW.
>> SO THE SOLAR PANELS ARE
PRETTY MUCH GOING TO COVER THE
ENTIRE ROOF.
OOPS, SORRY.
GO BACK TO THAT A LITTLE BIT
QUICKER ANYWAY.
DIMENSIONS AGAIN THIS IS KIND
OF FROM THE FROM THE FRONT BUT
JUST NEAR THE THE SIDE ENTRANCE
TOWARDS THE EAST SO OBVIOUSLY
LOOKING FROM PACKARD ROAD IN
THIS VIEW IT'S PRETTY OBSCURED.
IT'S KIND OF BEHIND INTO THE
RIGHT OF THE HOUSE YOU CAN SEE
A LITTLE BIT OF THE RAMP THAT
LEADS UP TO IT THROUGH THE
TREES AGAINST THIS SHOT IS
ABOUT IS A PRETTY IT'S A GOOD
SIZED DIRECTLY LOOKING AT IT
FROM PACKARD ROAD.
SO AGAIN, EVEN IN THE FALL WITH
SOME OF THE LEAVES OFF THE
TREES IT'S PRETTY WELL IT'S
PRETTY GOOD DISTANCE FROM FROM
THE ROAD AS WELL AS HIDDEN BY
VEGETATION.
>> AGAIN, DIFFERENT SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT VIEW A LITTLE
DIFFERENT ANGLE.
>> YOU CAN SEE THE WHITE
ENTRANCE DOOR TO THE BARN RIGHT
THERE AGAIN JUST MOVING OVER A
LITTLE BIT FURTHER AGAIN EVEN A
LITTLE BIT FURTHER EAST ALONG
PACARD.
SO AGAIN SO THIS WOULD BE AN
ANGLE AS YOU AS YOU'RE DRIVING
WESTBOUND.
SO IT'S PRETTY WELL SCREENED
GOING TO THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS.
NO TO A NUMBER NINE AND TEN
THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DESIGN
GUIDELINES REGARDING SOLAR
WHERE APPROPRIATE MONNING SOLAR
PANELS AT GRADE OR ON GRADE
POLE MOUNTAIN I THINK IS RIGHT
IN THE MIDDLE OF MY NEXT PAUL
MOUNTINGS IN THE ABSENCE OF AN
APPROPRIATE GROUND BASED
MOUNTAIN LOCATION PANEL SHOULD
BE MOUNTED ON A SIDE OR REAR
FACING ROOF SURFACES INSTALLING
MECHANICAL AND SERVICE
EQUIPMENT ON THE ROOF RELATED
TO THE SOLAR UNITS AND THE
RELATED DEVICES SO THAT THEY
ARE INCONSPICUOUS FROM THE
PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY AND DO NOT
DAMAGE OR OBSCURE CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES AND FOR
SLOPED ROOF INSTALLATION
SURROUNDING SOLAR PANELS
PARALLEL TO AND WITHIN EIGHT
INCHES OF THE ROOF SURFACE.
WHAT'S NOT APPROPRIATE FOR
SOLAR IS ANY OTHER ALTERATION
OR INSTALLATION PROCEDURE THAT
WILL CAUSE IRREVERSIBLE CHANGES
TO THE HISTORIC FEATURES OR
MATERIALS AND THAT CONCLUDES
THE PRESENTATION ON THAT ITEM.
>> THANK YOU MA'AM.
COMMISSIONER WILSON ROSS.
SO ONCE AGAIN ANOTHER PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD PROPOSAL.
UM AND I SO I AGREE WITH
STAFF'S CHARACTERIZATION OF THE
PROPOSAL ONCE AGAIN IT'S A NON
HISTORIC BUILDING THAT'S
LOCATED WELL OFF OF PACARD THE
SO THAT WILL LEAD TO OBVIOUSLY
THE PANELS BEING MINIMALLY
VISIBLE DEPENDING UPON HOW
YOU'RE APPROACHING BUT
GENERALLY SPEAKING IT DOES MEET
OUR GUIDELINES AND I I WILL
REPORT PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THANK YOU.
YES, I AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER
.
>> THANK YOU.
UM, IS THE APPLICANT ONLINE?
NO ACTUALLY SEE ME FROM THE
CITY NO FALLERS.
OK SO I WILL GO AHEAD AND MOVE
ON TO UM PUBLIC HEARING SEEING
NO CALLERS NO PERSONS PRESENT
ACTUALLY WE HAVE A CALLER MARK
DOROS ASKING TO TALK.
OK OK.
YEAH MR. YEAH.
UH WE CANNOT HEAR YOU.
WELL IT'S VERY IT'S VERY QUIET
AND UM A BETTER THAT'S MUCH
BETTER.
IT'S GREAT.
OK ARE YOU ARE YOU WANTING TO
SPEAK ON THE COBBLESTONE FARM
APPLICATION?
>> UM YES.
I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY WITH
HOMELAND SOLAR WE ARE THE
AMERICANS THANK YOU AND WE WE
ARE DOING A NUMBER OF CITY
PARKS AND WE BASICALLY ARE
WORKING PRETTY CLOSELY WITH THE
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION AND WE PRETTY MUCH
HAVE A GOAL FROM THEM TO TO GET
AS MUCH SOLAR POWER ON THE ROOF
AS WE CAN.
SO THIS IS THE LAYOUT WORKS
WELL AND I'M GLAD TO HEAR IT'S
ACCEPTABLE.
I THINK THE POINT THAT IS BEING
MADE HERE IS THAT THESE ARE
STANDARD SILVER FRAME PANELS
AND AS OPPOSED TO BLACK GREEN
PANELS WHICH WOULD RESULT IN
LESS POWER ON THE ROOF WHICH
ISN'T REALLY IN KEEPING WITH
THE GOALS OF OSFI.
THANK THANK YOU.
I THINK THERE WAS A POINT
MENTIONED IN THE PACKAGE SO
THANKS FOR BRINGING UP.
YEP.
UH, COMMISSIONER, DO YOU HAVE
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
UH, ONE QUESTION WILL THIS ALSO
POWER THE HOUSE?
>> UM, NO.
THIS IS ONLY GOING TO BE
CONNECTED TO THE METER THAT'S
AT THIS BUILDING.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
OK, UM I'LL MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION IF NO
MEMBERS IN THE AUDIENCE WE HAVE
ANY OTHER CALLERS ON LINE TO NO
OTHER CALLERS SO THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS FOR TWENTY
SEVEN EIGHTY ONE PACARD IS
CLOSED.
UM IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
MUSHARRAF I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUES
OF APPROPRIATE AND ASK FOR THE
APPLICATION AT TWENTY SEVEN
EIGHTY ONE PACKARD ROAD A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
COBBLESTONED FARM HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO INSTALL A SOLAR
ARRAY ON THE ROOF OF THE 1986
EVENT BARN AS PROPOSED THE WORK
IS COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE
MATERIAL IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE
REST OF THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR HIS PERU'S
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND
MECHANICAL SYSTEMS AS WELL AS
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY
AS THEY PERTAIN TO SOLAR
INSTALLATIONS.
SECOND, COMMISSIONER RACHLIN
SECOND AS THE COMMISSIONER
WITHOUT ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION I HAVE A QUESTION FOR
THE APPLICANT QUESTION FOR YOU
IF IT'S NOT TO TECHNICAL OR
LONG OF AN ANSWER, COULD YOU
PLEASE EXPLAIN WHY THE SILVER
FRAMED SOLAR PANELS CAN CAN
HAVE DRAWN MORE POWER THAN THE
BLACK ONES?
>> YES, IT'S A PRETTY SIMPLE
THEY'RE JUST PHYSICALLY A
LITTLE BIT BIGGER AND THEY
HAPPEN TO FIT THIS ROOF A
LITTLE BIT BETTER.
WE CAN GET THREE ROWS THERE
WHETHER THEY'RE THE SILVER
FRAME OR THE BLACK ONES AND
SINCE THE BLACK ONES ARE JUST A
LITTLE BIT BIGGER, WE GET MORE
POWER.
>> YEAH, OK, I'M GLAD THAT'S
THE ANSWER AND THANK YOU FOR
THAT THAT THAT MAKES YOU KNOW
THAT MAKES OUR PREFERENCE FOR
THE BLACK ONES.
I MEAN THEY JUST THEY BLEND IN
BETTER.
SO ON THE HISTORIC DISTRICT WE
SEEM TO LIKE THEM MORE AND
THAT'S WHY THEY'RE ALLOWED TO
BE STAFF APPROVED.
BUT JUST THE FACT THAT THEY'RE
NOT THERE LIKE IF THEY WERE
INFERIOR IN SOME WAY
TECHNICALLY THAT WOULD BE SORT
OF A.
BUT I I IMAGINE SOMETIMES THEY
WOULD FIT BETTER THAN THAN THE
BIGGER ONES.
SO THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THAT.
WE ARE WE ARE READY FOR A VOTE.
YES.
OK, ALL OF THOSE IN FAVOR THE
MOTION SAY YES.
YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO.
IT'S ALL RIGHT.
THAT WAS NOT A NO NO I'M SORRY
THE MOTION CARRIED INFL YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
JUST NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING WORK
ON THE PROJECT.
ALL RIGHT ON TO WEST CHEERING
ITEM F FIVE SEVEN SIX WEST
LIBERTY.
>> OH THANK YOU AGAIN LOCATED
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT, THE PETITION BEFORE
USED TO PAVE THE EXISTING
DRIVEWAY THAT YOU CAN SEE
OBVIOUSLY ON THE PICTURE HERE A
DIFFERENT SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
VIEW OF THE PICTURE SIDE OF THE
DRIVEWAY.
ONE THING TO NOTE AS WELL AND I
THINK IT IS CALLED OUT IN THE
REPORT BUT SOME OF THE DRAWINGS
SHOWED THIS AREA IS BEING
FILLED IN.
BUT JOE HAD CLARIFIED WITH THE
APPLICANT THAT THEY DON'T
INTEND SORRY THEY DON'T INTEND
TO FILL THAT AREA IN.
SO THAT WAS EITHER THAT WAS
GOING TO BE REVISED AND THEY
CAN SPEAK TO THAT AS WELL.
>> SO THIS AREA WILL REMAIN
WITH VEGETATION HERE LOOKING
OBVIOUSLY FROM THE REAR OF THIS
THE EXISTING GRAVEL AREAS WILL
THIS IS PART OF WHAT WILL BE
PAVED.
>> THIS IS BASICALLY TAKING
ANYTHING FROM THE GARAGE I SEE
LOOKING AT THE GARAGE ALL THE
AREA TO BE PAVED
AND THE
PAINTING WILL ALSO INCLUDE A
KIND OF AN EXTENSION YOU CAN
SEE ON THE DRAWINGS TO ALLOW
THEM TO GET THERE'S A SITE
ACCESS DOOR HERE AND IT'LL
ALLOW THEM TO GET TO THAT AT
GRADE THERE.
NOW THERE'S KIND OF A STEP DOWN
AND A STEP UP.
THERE'S SOME GREAT CHANGES.
SO OBVIOUSLY AN AERIAL PHOTO
OF THE SITE AND THIS KIND
OF SUPERIMPOSES THE PAVING
ASPECT OF IT.
>> AGAIN, YOU'LL NOTE THAT IT
DOES SHOW THAT AREA IS BEING
PAVED BUT THAT WILL NOT THAT
WILL NOT BE PAVED.
AND HERE IS KIND OF A MORE OF A
VISUAL DEMONSTRATION AGAIN
LOOKING FROM THE STREET,
LOOKING AT THE REAL AREA AND
LOOKING OUT DIRECTLY TO THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
THAT DO APPLY NO ONE NO TO
NUMBER 10 SECRETARY OF STATE'S
INTERIOR GUIDELINES REGARDING A
BUILDING SITE.
>> WHAT'S RECOMMENDED BY THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES REGARDING
LANDSCAPE FEATURES.
WHAT'S NOT APPROPRIATE IS
INTRODUCING ANY BUILDING ANY
NEW BUILDING STREETSCAPE OR
LANDSCAPE FEATURE THAT IS OUT
OF SCALE OR OTHERWISE
INAPPROPRIATE TO THE DISTRICT'S
HISTORIC CHARACTER REGARDING
PAVED AREAS SPECIFICALLY
APPROPRIATE RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES RETAINING AND
MAINTAINING EXISTING HISTORIC
DRIVEWAYS AND CURB CUTS
INCLUDING TWO TRACK DRIVEWAYS
AND GREEN SPACE BETWEEN THE
DRIVEWAY AND THE HOUSE AND
SORRY BUT THAT DOES CONCLUDE
THE PRESENTATION ON THAT ITEM.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
WILSON ROSS, WOULD YOU GIVE
YOUR REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT
AND RECOMMENDATION TO IT?
>> SO ONCE AGAIN ANOTHER PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD PROJECT SO JUST
NOTING THAT YOU KNOW WHAT SO
THIS IS A PRETTY SUBSTANTIAL
YARD.
SO THE SO I MEAN I AGREE WITH
STAFF IN THE SENSE THAT THERE'S
GOING TO BE A LOT OF CONCRETE
ADDED HERE.
BUT YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU LOOK AT
THE LARGE SCALE THE YARD, IT
DOESN'T APPEAR TO BE THAT IT'S
GOING TO BE THAT MUCH OUT
OF SCALE AND THE PROPOSAL THE
PROPOSAL DOESN'T SEEM TO AND I
GUESS I WOULD WANT THE
APPLICANT THE HOMEOWNER TO TO
VERIFY THAT AT LEAST THE
DRIVEWAY COMING FROM THE STREET
AS IT GETS TO THE YOU KNOW,
LEADING TO THE HOUSE WHERE THE
WORK KIND OF WIDENS OUT TOWARDS
THE BACK TO THE DRIVEWAY ALONG
THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE DOESN'T
APPEAR TO BE AND SO I KNOW LIKE
JILL IS SAYING IT'S NOT GOING
TO WIDEN CLOSE TO THE HOUSE BUT
I ASSUME IT'S NOT GOING TO
WIDEN ON THE OTHER SIDE EITHER
.
>> SO IT DOESN'T ALTHOUGH IT'S
WAITING IT OUT A LITTLE BIT IN
THE REAR.
IT'S ONCE AGAIN THAT YARD IS SO
BIG THAT IT'S NOT GOING TO HAVE
THAT MUCH OF AN IMPACT.
SO IT DOES APPEAR TO MEET OUR
GUIDELINES AND MAKE SENSE.
YEAH, I WOULD AGREE AND KNOWING
THAT THAT PLANTER AREA IS GOING
TO BE THERE AND NOT REMOVED AT
THAT KEEPS THE SIZE OF THE
DRIVE FROM WHAT'S VISIBLE FROM
THE STREET.
I THINK IN THE RIGHT
PERSPECTIVE TO THE ORIGINAL
PARTS ELEMENTS OF THE HOUSE.
THANK YOU.
UM, THE APPLICANT YES.
>> THERE ON THE APPLICANT ONLY
MICROPHONE IN UH STATE YOUR
NAME AND YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE
MINUTES TO SPEAK IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING YOU'D LIKE TO ADD TO
THE STAFF REPORT A REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS ALEX WHATELY.
I CERTAINLY DON'T HAVE FIVE
MINUTES WORTH OF MATERIAL BUT I
WILL CONFIRM THAT THE DRIVEWAY
IS NOT BEING EXTENDED OR
WIDENED ON THE WEST SIDE.
WE INTEND TO KEEP THE BORDER
THAT'S THERE.
THERE AND YES, THAT GREEN PATCH
WILL REMAIN WHERE THE FOLIAGE
WAS PLANTED.
YOU CAN SEE IN THE PICTURES
SORT OF WHERE OUR TRASH CANS
ARE THAT'S NOT REALLY GREEN
SPACE RIGHT NOW BUT IT'S NOT
REALLY PART OF THE DRIVEWAY
EITHER.
>> AND OUR PREFERENCE WOULD BE
TO PAVE THAT AREA TO HAVE A
NICE PLACE FOR OUR TRASH CANS
AND I THINK THAT THAT WAS
INCLUDED IN THE STAFF REPORT.
>> BUT OTHER THAN THAT, HAPPY
TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS,
COMMISSIONER, ANY QUESTIONS?
I JUST, UM JUST TO CLARIFY YOUR
LAST STATEMENT ABOUT PAVING
WHERE THE TRASH CANS ARE
LOCATED.
ARE YOU WANTING TO TOW THE THE
PLANTINGS THAT ARE EXISTING?
THOSE WOULD REMAIN BUT WHERE
THE HOUSE STEPS BACK DOWN BRICK
DO YOU WANT TO DO PAVING FROM
IS IT FROM THAT POINT ALL THE
WAY BACKWARD OR BACKWARD JUST
KIND OF WHERE THE TRASH CANS
ARE LOCATED, JUST WHERE THE
TRASH CANS ARE LOCATED, RIGHT
WHERE THE PLANTINGS ARE WOULD
STAY AND THEN I THINK THERE'S
LIKE A SLIGHT BIT OF GREEN
SPACE MAYBE BETWEEN MAYBE NOT
BUT BUT IT WOULD NOT EXTEND TO
WHERE THEY'RE STANDING OR GREEN
SPACE THAT EVERYTHING BEHIND
THAT WOULD BE PAVED UP
BASICALLY FOR THE REST OF THE
DISTANCE OF THE HOUSE.
IS THAT CORRECT?
BECAUSE THE HOUSE STEPS IN.
THAT'S RIGHT.
OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
COMMISSIONERS' OK SO THAT AREA
THAT WE WERE JUST OK YOU COULD
GO BACK TO THAT.
SO THE AREA THAT WE WERE JUST
TALKING ABOUT WHERE THE TRASH
CANS ARE, WHERE IS SO THE BROWN
RECTANGLE IS LABELED PORCH OR
DECK SORRY.
SO WHERE ARE WHERE'S THE TRASH
CAN RELATIVE TO WHAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT THE LEFT SIDE WHERE
THAT INSET IS.
>> YEAH WHERE THE THE BUILDING
BUMP OUT WHERE THE BUILDING
KIND OF STEPS IN I THINK I'M
SORRY TO KEEP GOING BACK.
THERE YOU GO.
I MEAN I HAVE A BETTER ONE.
>> I DON'T THINK I HAVE A
BETTER VIEW.
WOW IT IT'S HARD TO SEE THERE
BUT YES I THINK FROM THAT POINT
TO THE REAR AS WELL WOULD BE OK
SO WHAT DO WE HAVE THE IS THE
PROPOSED LAYOUT SHOWN IN THIS
PRESENTATION.
>> DO YOU HAVE IT OR IS IT SOME
NOW THIS IS THE ONE THAT SAW
THAT SHE ASKED FOR THEM TO
REVISE BECAUSE ALL THIS DOES
NOT SHOW THAT PAVING AREA IN
HERE.
THIS THESE THESE ARE THE LAYOUT
WE HAVE THIS ONE AND THEN
THERE'S ANOTHER ONE.
YES.
IT WAS JUST THIS ONE HERE AND
THEN THERE'S THIS ONE.
YEAH.
IN OUR PACKAGE THERE'S ONE THAT
SAYS YEAH YEAH IT'S PAGE EIGHT
OF THE PACKAGE SO OK SO I'M
SORRY I DON'T HAVE ANOTHER TOOL
ON THE BACK END.
THE PROBLEM OK.
OH YEAH YES BUT RIGHT THE
HOMEOWNER CONFIRMED THAT RIGHT.
THEY'RE KEEPING THE THE
EXISTING PLANTING THE GREEN
SPACE ON THE SIDE SO JUST AT
THE LOCATION WHERE THE HOUSE
WHERE IT IS EXISTING.
RIGHT SOUNDS LIKE THEY WANT TO
THE DRIVEWAY OR PAVING WOULD
THEN BE KIND OF YEAH.
WHERE THE GARBAGE CANS ARE FROM
THE HOUSE BACK AND THEN THIS IS
WHERE IT IS THE REMAINING
REFACE GACHA SO IT'S ONLY AT
THE PORTION OF THE HOUSE WHERE
THE GREEN SPACE FOR ME THAT'S
MOST VISIBLE FROM THE DRIVEWAY
ANY BRICK COMMISSIONER IS A
QUESTION YES.
>> SO I THIS IS A LOT
OF CONCRETE I WOULD SAY IN MY
ESTIMATION SO I GET IT THAT IT
I GUESS THAT'S WHY WE'RE JUST
BEING VERY CAREFUL ABOUT LET'S
KEEP SOME GREEN SPACE HERE AND
AND ALL THAT SO I DO APPRECIATE
THOUGH THE COMMENTS FROM THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE SAYING YES IT
IS BUT IT'S IT'S NOT A LOT IF
YOU LOOK AT THE ENTIRE THE
ENTIRE YARD WHICH IS NICE.
BUT ONE ONE THING I HAVE HEARD
IS THAT THE THE THERE'S A PART
NEXT TO THE GARAGE WHERE YOU
WANT TO GET INTO THE GARAGE AND
THAT MAKES A LOT OF SENSE TO
HAVE THAT.
SO IT LOOKS LIKE NOW IT'S A BIT
TREACHEROUS.
>> WHAT IS THE JUSTIFICATION
FOR REMOVE WHAT NOW IS PLANTED
SPACE AND LIKE OK SO RIGHT
THERE I IF YOU HAVE LIKE A FOUR
FOOT WIDE PATH THAT COULD GET
YOU FROM THE EXISTING GRAVEL TO
THE DOOR BUT THE PROPOSAL IS
SHOWING THAT THAT KIND OF COMES
ALL THE WAY BACK TO THE HOUSE A
BIT WIDER THEN WHAT IS THERE SO
JUST WHY WHY DO YOU NEED THAT
MORE BIT TO BE PAID?
BUT JUST JUST TO CLARIFY THAT
POINT, IT'S BASICALLY I MEAN
THERE'S CURRENTLY GRASS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
OK, I MEAN I THINK THE NUMBER
ONE JUSTIFICATION FOR THIS SIZE
INCREASE WOULD BE PARKING.
THERE'S NO STREET PARKING IN
THE AREA.
WE HAVE A LOT OF GRANDPARENTS
WHO LIVE IN THE AREA.
WE OFTEN HAVE PEOPLE OVER IN
THE BACKYARD AND AND IT WOULD
JUST ALLOW US TO PARK MORE
VEHICLES BACK THERE.
IT ALSO IS A LARGER SPACE FOR
CHILDREN TO RIDE BIKES, PLAY
BASKETBALL, HANG OUT AND WE
JUST ALREADY HAVE SO MUCH SPACE
IN THE YARD.
I MEAN WHAT YOU SEE IN THESE
PICTURES IS A FRACTION OF IT
THAT WE REALLY DON'T FEEL LIKE
WE'RE LOSING MUCH.
>> SO HOPEFULLY THAT ANSWERS
YOUR QUESTION.
I MEAN I WON'T I WON'T LIE TO
YOU AND SAY THAT IT IS
ABSOLUTELY IMPERATIVE TO
CONTINUED USE OF THE HOME TO
MAKE IT LARGER BUT IT WOULD
CERTAINLY BE MORE CONVENIENT
AND MORE ENJOYABLE IF WE HAD,
YOU KNOW, A LITTLE BIT MORE
FLAT SPACE BACK THERE.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, YOU OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION FOR THE APPLICATION AT
SEVEN OR SIX WEST LIBERTY.
>> NOBODY IN THE AUDIENCE DO WE
HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE
LINE.
>> NO OTHER CALLERS SO CLOSE TO
A PUBLIC HEARING PERSON THERE,
COMMISSIONER, THAT WOULD LIKE
TO MAKE A MOTION.
YEAH.
HI, COMMISSIONER.
I'M ON SECOND I'M SORRY SORRY
SORRY.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT SIX WEST LIBERTY
STREET CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO PAVE THE DRIVEWAY
WITH CONCRETE ON THE CONDITION
THAT THE EXISTING PLANNING
BOARD ALONG THE WEST ELEVATION
OF HOUSE IN THE FRONT OF THE
REAR EDITION IS MAINTAINED AS A
CONDITION.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE SURROUNDING
RESOURCES AND MEETS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES FOR PAVED AREAS AND
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE, TWO
AND TEN IN THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE SECOND.
SO PLEASE MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER.
WE NEED DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION.
>> DID THE DOES THAT MAKE SENSE
IN I ALONG THE WEST ELEVATION
OF THE HOUSE I GET THAT THAT
EXISTING PLANTING BED IN FRONT
OF THE REAR EDITION.
YEAH SO BUT WE DON'T WE'RE NOT
TALKING ABOUT WHERE THE GARBAGE
CANS ARE THOUGH RIGHT.
THAT'S THAT WOULD BE NEXT TO
THE REAR EDITION IN FRONT
OF THE REAR VISION THAT'S LIKE
THE MAIN BLOCK OF THE HOUSE.
>> YES.
JUST ONE INDICATION THAT THE
EXISTING PLANTING THAT ALONG
THE WEST ELEVATION OF THE HOUSE
IN FRONT OF THE REAR EDITION IS
MAINTAINED.
OK, SO SO I THINK SHE'S JUST
DESCRIBING THAT AREA INSIDE
OF THE REAR EDITION IS JUST
WHAT I'M CONFUSED ABOUT BUT I
THINK IT IS REINFECTION TO THE
REAR.
YES.
IS IT CLEAR ENOUGH?
>> I THINK IT'S CLEAR, JANE.
IT'S ON THE WEST ELEVATION AND
SHE'S DESCRIBING IN FURTHER
DETAIL.
OK, SO YEAH I MEAN YEAH I WENT
TO THE MAIN BLOCK OF THE HOUSE
ADJACENT TO THE CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE.
YOU KNOW YOU COULD SAY THAT I
THINK IT'S CLEAR THAT WHAT I'M
LOOKING AT IN THE PHOTO SHOULD
BE RETAINED.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
THE MOTION DIDN'T SAY ALSO PAVE
THE PARK ARE ALSO YOU'RE NOT
ALLOWED TO PAVE THE PART WHERE
THE GARBAGE CANS ARE WHICH IS
WHAT THE OWNER WANTS TO DO.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT IN FRONT
OF THE REAR EDITION MEANS.
RIGHT.
OK, CORRECT.
AND GOOD THING IS THAT THE WEST
SIDE THE HOUSE RIGHT WHERE THE
EXISTING PLANT IS MODIFYING THE
EXISTING PLANT IN THAT LOCATION
VERY GOOD.
OK, ANY OTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
MOTION?
I JUST I HAD I GUESS SOME
INITIAL CONCERNS ABOUT THE SIZE
OF THE PAVING.
UM, WHEN I WAS FIRST LOOKING
THROUGH THE APPLICATION SEEING
THAT THE MAJORITY OF THIS IS
ALREADY EXISTING GRAVEL, I
THINK THAT THAT AND THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT THE HOMEOWNERS
ARE REQUESTING TO BE PAVED AND
THEN HEARING THAT THERE'S
ADDITIONAL LIKE THIS IS A VERY
LARGE SITE AND A LOT OF GRASS
THAT THAT ADDITIONAL PAVING.
I THINK THE QUESTION THAT
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN POSED WAS
,UM, YOU KNOW, HELPFUL AND
UNDERSTANDING THAT FURTHER THAT
THIS IS IT'S A SMALL PORTION
OF THIS ADDITIONAL PAVING
THAT'S BEING ADDED EVEN THOUGH
OVERALL IT'S A LOT OF CONCRETE.
I THINK IT'S APPROPRIATE IN
SIZE AND SCALE IN RELATION TO
ALL OF THOSE ARE READY TO VOTE
ON THOSE IN FAVOR.
PLEASE SAY YES, YES, YES, YES,
YES OF AS OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
RIGHT.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED D
DON'T YOU MUST APPLY FOR ANY
REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE CITY
BEFORE BEGINNING WORK ON YOUR
PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
THANKS RIGHT BACK TO THE AGENDA
I MOVE ON TO ITEM G NEW
BUSINESS WE DO THINGS WE
HONORING DEPARTING
COMMISSIONERS BELIEVE THERE IS
WAS THERE A RESOLUTION THAT MR.
ARCHER LEFT WITH YOU?
I DON'T HAVE A RESOLUTION.
OK?
I DON'T HAVE RESOLUTION.
WE HAVE THE WE HAVE THE PLAX.
YEAH, WE HAVE THE FLAGSTICK
THAT WILL BE SIGNED BUT I'M
SORRY I DON'T HAVE A
RESOLUTION.
NO THAT'S THAT'S FINE.
I CAN WORK THREE RESOLUTIONS.
YES YES YEAH.
THREE RESOLUTIONS ONE FOR EACH
COMMISSIONER SO IT MAY JUST I
TAKE IT THERE WAS NOTHING NO
ATTACHMENT THAT I SAW RIGHT.
>> IS WITHIN YOUR PACKET I
DON'T HAVE ANY WITH FOR MY
PACKET IN THE LINK WAS NOT
ACTING OPENING UP TO SEE WHAT
LET'S LOOK AT THE WORDING I
DON'T THINK THERE'S ANYTHING NO
THERE'S NOTHING TO DO LINK STOP
ON MY SCREEN WHEREAS
COMMISSIONER BOB DID AN
INCREDIBLE JOB ALL THESE YEARS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
SERVICE.
IT IS GREATLY APPRECIATED.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
DITTO TO COMMISSIONER BEVERLY
AND COMMISSIONER AND THANK YOU.
WELL DONE.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR.
YES.
YOU GOT TO SAY SOMETHING LIKE A
SECOND THAT MR. O WILL BE GOOD.
>> YEAH, THANK YOU FOR YOUR
SERVICE.
THANK YOU.
EIGHTEEN YEARS OF SERVICE
COMMISSIONER WAS EIGHTEEN YEARS
SO YOU'VE DONE YOUR DUTY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
INSTITUTION.
YES DENHA OF AN ERROR INDEED.
>> AND THEN ON TO ITEM G WON
ELECTION OF OFFICERS FROM DID
YOU RECEIVE A MEMO THAT
NOMINATING OK AND COMMISSIONER
DAVID MISSIONAL KAUFMAN AND
COMMISSIONER JUSTICE ROBERTS'S
CHAIR CLOSE TO SECRETARY
CLARENCE THAT IS THE NOMINATION
FOR NOMINATIONS LATE THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
FOR THIS YEAR FOR VOTES YES.
AND IN THE DISCUSSION NO NOT
EVERYONE.
MY APOLOGIES.
WE DO HAVE THE RESOLUTIONS
RIGHT HERE.
OH, I APOLOGIZE.
THEY WERE IN THE THINGS THAT
NEEDED TO BE SIGNED FOR THE
MEETING.
>> WE HAD A LITTLE BIT OF A
FLUSTERED START SO I DIDN'T
QUITE GET THIS SO I THINK WE
HAVE THREE OF THEM ABOUT THE
PROPER AND YOU KNOW OF COURSE
YEAH.
>> SO BASICALLY DESIGNED TO
MAKE IT OFFICIAL BY IF SOMEBODY
WOULD LIKE TO BUT I'M NOT GOING
TO READ TWO OF THEM AND I SAID
OK, I REALLY WANT TO READ NOW I
ASSUME IF YOU COULD READ THOSE
SO THANK YOU GUYS ABOUT THAT
AND NOW WE'RE GOING TO GO AHEAD
WITHOUT OBJECTION.
YES YEAH LARRY LET ME THANK YOU
.
SO I'LL READ THE RESOLUTION
FROM BEVERLY HILLS WEST BEVERLY
WILLIS HAVING HAS SERVED
FAITHFULLY IN THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
AND WHEREAS BEVERLY HAS USED
HER CONSIDERABLE KNOWLEDGE
OF HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND THE
PURSUIT OF HISTORIC
PRESERVATION GOALS AND WHEREAS
BEVERLY KNOWLEDGE OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL HISTORY HAS WASHTENAW
COUNTY HISTORY HAS BEEN AN
ASSET TO AN ARBORS LOCAL
HISTORIC DISTRICT IN WEST
BEVERLY AND HER EXPERTIZE WILL
TRULY BE MISSED BY THE
COMMISSION THEREFORE BE
RESOLVED.
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION EXPRESSES ITS
SINCERE GRATITUDE AND COMMENDS
BEVERLY FOR HER DEDICATED
SERVICE TO HISTORIC
PRESERVATION IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR ON THIS 11TH DAY OF MAY
2003 YOU HEAR ME SAY OH YES,
ALL IN FAVOR SAY YES.
YEAH, YEAH, I GUESS.
ALL RIGHT, LET ME HEAR YOU
GUYS.
YES, OK.
EXCUSE ME.
I GUESS I'LL HAVE I HAVE TO
SIGN IT FIRST.
OH YES.
>> OK, THIS IS ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
RESOLUTION AND APOSHIAN WHEREAS
ANNAPOLIS AND HAS SERVED ON THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION FOR SIX YEARS AND
WHEREAS ANNA HAS USED HER
CONSIDERABLE KNOWLEDGE
OF ARCHITECTURE AND
PRESERVATION IN THE PURSUIT
OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION GOALS
AND WHEREAS ANNA HAS SUPPORTED
HISTORIC PRESERVATION IN ANN
ARBOR BY SUPPORTING LOCAL
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND WHEREAS
ANNA SERVED AS THE SECRETARY
VICE CHAIR AND CHAIR OF THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
AND WHEREAS ANNISON KNOWLEDGE
AND EXPERTIZE WILL TRULY BE
MISSED BY THE COMMISSION
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION EXPRESSES ITS
SINCERE GRATITUDE AND COMMENDS
ANNA FOR HER DEDICATED SERVICE
TO HISTORIC PRESERVATION IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR ON THIS
ELEVENTH DAY OF MAY 2010 THREE
.
>> ALTHOUGH IN SUPPORT OF THIS
PLEASE VERY GOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
MR. ROBERT WHITE.
WHEREAS ROBERT WHITE HAS SERVED
ON THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION FOR
EIGHTEEN YEARS SINCE SEPTEMBER
SIX, 2005 AND WHEREAS ROBERT
HAS PUT TO GOOD USE HIS VAST
EXPERIENCE AS COMMISSIONER IN
THE PURSUIT OF HISTORIC
PRESERVATION GOALS AND
WHEREAS
ROBERT HAS SERVED AS
CHAIRPERSON OF THE NOMINATING
COMMITTEE FOR 17 YEARS AND ALSO
ON THE HISTORIC DISTRICT IN
AUBURN HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES COMMITTEE AND THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR SELECTION
COMMITTEE AS WELL AS NUMEROUS
OTHER COMMITTEES OF THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
AND WHERE ROBERT SERVED AS A
SECRETARY VICE CHAIR AND CHAIR
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION AND WHEREAS ROBERT
HAS BEEN THE LONGEST SERVING
COMMISSIONER ON THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION IN ITS 50
YEAR EXISTENCE.
>> THEREFORE WE RESOLVED THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION EXPRESS ITS SINCERE
GRATITUDE AND COMMENDS ROBERT
FOR HIS EXCELLENT AND
OUTSTANDING SERVICE TO HISTORIC
PRESERVATION IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR ON THIS 11TH DAY OF MAY
2003.
>> OH WOW.
YEAH
, LOOK INSIDE BOTH I NEVER
THOUGHT I'D SEE THE DAY.
>> DO WE SEE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR?
OH YEAH WE DID.
I THINK WE IT DOWN THERE WE
USUALLY BOB LETS US KNOW WHEN
IT'S TIME TO VOTE.
>> SHOULD WE VOTE ON THAT ONE
VOTE.
THANK YOU.
YOU WANT TO BRING HIM BACK OVER
HERE IN THE FRAME.
OK.
HMM.
THERE'S THERE'S A FRAME.
OH WELL OK YEAH WELL SO THEY
GET THE FRAMES AND DO THIS
AGAIN FRONT I'LL TAKE YOU BACK.
NO THANK YOU.
>> NO WAIT A YEAR A GOOD
REAPPOINTED YOU GET THE FRONT.
>> ALL RIGHT WITH THAT THIS NEW
BUSINESS QUITE A BIT UM ONTO
ITEM APPROVAL OF MINUTES WE
RECEIVED APRIL 13 MINUTES WITH
OR FROM IN AN EMAIL SO EVERYONE
HAD A CHANCE TO REVIEW THOSE
MINUTES AND WRITE THE MINUTES
ARE APPROVED AS PRESENTED NO
OBJECTION ONTO ITEM BY REPORTS
FROM COMMISSIONERS DENHA MR.
LIKE MR. ITEM J ASSIGNMENTS FOR
MONDAY JUNE 5TH AT FIVE PM FOR
THE THURSDAY JUNE 8TH MEETING
MR. ROSS AND THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS AVAILABLE
COMMISSIONER FORTNER YEAH THANK
YOU.
OK OK OK.
REPORTS FROM STAFF RIGHT NOW
WELL THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR
PATIENCE.
>> UM THE DISPATCHER IS AT THE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
CONFERENCE SO SHE'LL COME BACK
WITH EVEN MORE AND SHARE WITH
YOU ALL WONDERFUL AND ONTO ITEM
CONCERNS OF COMMISSIONERS IS
THERE CONCERN THE NEW
COMMISSIONER LIKE TO SHARE WILL
BE THREE DOWN?
YEAH.
SO GOING TO BE HOPEFULLY A
SMALL COMMITTEE.
I KNOW THE ONE WHERE ARE YOU
GOING TO CONTINUE ON FOR A
COUPLE OF MEETINGS I'LL TELL
YOU.
OK, UNTIL YOU GET THE
APPOINTMENT.
>> UH OK.
YES AND I DID TELL JOE THAT
I'LL BE AVAILABLE IF WE DON'T
HAVE WE NEED UH SO YEAH OK JUST
SO WE'RE NOT SURE BECAUSE WE'LL
BE DOWN TO FOUR AND THAT THAT
IS OUR TAKE NO ONE NO ABSENCES
AND IT WOULD BE ALLOWABLE.
>> SO IF ANYONE IS INTERESTED
ANYONE'S WATCHING OUT THERE
YOU'RE INTERESTED YOU LIVE IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
INTERESTED IN JOINING THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
YOU CAN DO UM PUT AN
APPLICATION IN ON THE WHAT THEY
WANT ITEM IN COMMUNICATIONS.
I BELIEVE THERE HAVEN'T BEEN
ANY INTO THE HGC ONTO ITEM AN
ADJOURNMENT AND NOW ADJOURN THE
MAY 11, 2003 MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
>> WELL DONE.
>> YOU DO YOU ALL